### Federated Unlearning

Federated unlearning is a concept proposed in the recent research literature that uses an unlearning algorithm, such as retraining from scratch, to guarantee that a client is able to remove all the effects of its local private data samples from the trained model. In its implementation in `examples/unlearning/fedunlearning/fedunlearning_server.py` and `examples/unlearning/fedunlearning/fedunlearning_client.py`, a framework-agnostic implementation of federated unlearning overrides several methods in the client and server APIs, such as the server's `aggregate_deltas()` to implement federated unlearning.

```shell
uv run examples/unlearning/fedunlearning/fedunlearning.py \
  -c examples/unlearning/fedunlearning/fedunlearning_adahessian_MNIST_lenet5.yml
```

**Note:** If the AdaHessian optimizer is used as in the example configuration file, it will reflect what the following paper proposed:

**Reference:** Liu et al., "[The Right to be Forgotten in Federated Learning: An Efficient Realization with Rapid Retraining](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.07320)," in Proc. INFOCOM, 2022.

---

### Knot

Knot is implemented in `examples/unlearning`, which clusters the clients, and the server aggregation is carried out within each cluster only. Knot is designed under **asynchronous** mode, and unlearned by retraining from scratch in cluster. The global model will be aggregated at the end of the retraining process. Knot supports a wide range of tasks, including image classification and language tasks.

```shell
uv run examples/unlearning/knot/knot.py \
  -c examples/unlearning/knot/knot_cifar10_resnet18.yml

uv run examples/unlearning/knot/knot.py \
  -c examples/unlearning/knot/knot_mnist_lenet5.yml

uv run examples/unlearning/knot/knot.py \
  -c examples/unlearning/knot/knot_purchase.yml
```

**Reference:** N. Su, B. Li. "[Asynchronous Federated Unlearning](https://iqua.ece.toronto.edu/papers/ningxinsu-infocom23.pdf)," in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM 2023).
